What are some of the internet protocol?
Is, actually,
you have the IP layer, above that,
there is the UDP layer, and, above that,
there is RTP,
real time transmission protocol.
The reason to have this and
not TCP is when you are waiting for
each packet to be acknowledged and
then have rechance missions,
you just cannot have real time systems.
So the thing about real time services
is if you don't get the packets
at a certain amount of time,
you basically drop it on the floor and
move on to the next thing.
And a lot of the codecs that
compress wise and expand wise.
They have some built-in mechanisms to
make the sound not very objectionable.
So the UniP is much simpler than the TCP.
You have the source port and the
destination port and you have a checksum
on all of the data that
the UDP packet counted.
So it's much smaller protocol
compared to TCP in that sense.
And you have the real time transport
protocol that sits on top of UDP.
The two points that you should
pay attention to in RTP is
the sequence number.
So this is real time data
every voice packet or
every video packet gets
sequentially numbered so
that if some of them are missing you
know which of them are actually lost,
so the decoder, the receiver,
knows where there are gaps in the data.
There is a time stamp information for
all the packets that she actually kept.
This directly relates to the wall clock,
so that you can
control the rate at which
you play back information,
is it video or voice?
So for certain fixed networks which
we were mainly using that
looking at Wise examples.
There is a codec that generates packets,
and
it directly goes to the medium
access layer, MAC layer, and
that goes to the Phy, which is the.
The MAC and Phy are later GSM or
amps that we will see in future
modules on wireless technologies.
But, the main point is, you get
one packet every 20 milliseconds
that needs to be played back.
If you look at the IP side,
it goes through all these different
layers, including RTP, UDP,
IP, and
because they could take different routes,
there is a variable latency
in which you get packets.
So number one, there is lots of
overhead in the data that you sent.
This is perfectly fine in
a wired line Internet but for
VOIP or wireless access,
it's got lots of issues.
That's the reason why the voice
in cell phones is still in 3G and
not 4G still circuit switched the other
services are packaged switched.
And because of the latency and
the [INAUDIBLE] which you need to buffer
them up for much longer duration.
And drain the buffer at a constant rate.
The other problem is if you
send very large packets so
that you can amortize the header
over much longer data payload.
If one small chunk is lost,
then you have lost the whole data.
And this is called loss of good code.
Even though when you have good throughput.